Hi guys.
In this lab I want to cover launch configurations and launch templates.
This is in relation to auto scaling and you'll remember if you see under auto scaling in the bottom
left there you have launch configurations and they specify parameters such as the instance family the
instance type the EMI I.D. to use the key pair security groups and so on.
So there's several parameters that you can specify in a launch configuration that defines what auto
scaling launch is when it launches an instance.
Now there's a new feature called Launch templates may not be on the exam yet but it will be soon and
it is the way that Amazon is recommending you go because it has some additional features.
Now what we'll do is we'll cover launch configurations first and then we'll move onto launch templates.
So let's create a launch configuration so we can see it in action.
The first being is to choose the EMI that we want to use.
I'm going to choose this Amazon lives to aim my you then get to choose the family and type.
So obviously you can select from any of these instance types that you like.
I'm just gonna leave it as the general purpose T2 micro you then put a name on your launch configuration
you can request spot instances and you can specify your maximum bid price.
This is the maximum amount you're prepared to pay per hour for that instance and you can get some big
discounts by using SPOT instances.
You can choose your IAM role so let's just choose the only one that we have available.
And if you wanted to pay a bit more to get more data through cloud what you can enable detailed monitoring
which gives you data in 1 minute intervals whereas by default the basic monitoring gives you for free
in five minute intervals.
There is then some advance detail so for instance you could put your user data in here.
You could specify to assign a public IP to every instance you can then specify the UBS volumes that
you want to attach.
Now by default this EMI has come of a route volume you could easily just go in and add an E B.S. provision
I OP's volume and you can encrypt that if you like and then you can specify a security group and that's
all the parameters that you can specify so you can see you have the EMI details for instance type the
launch conflict details which includes the IAM role the user data the IP address configuration then
you have storage options and security groups.
And if we just click Create launch configuration we then have to specify our key player as well.
And that said we've now created a launch configuration.
Now one of the things you'll notice about launch configurations is you can't modify it so you can delete
it and you can copy the launch configuration and then make changes to it but you can't modify the existing
launch configuration.
That means that if this launch configuration is attached to an auto scaling group and you need to change
something like the instance type you want to use you can't make this modification it's important for
the exam that you notice because this comes up in questions quite a lot.
So what you need to know is that you would create a new one so maybe your copy of the launch configuration
and you might then go through this go back and change the instance time and we could say well we want
it to be a T2 small because we need a a bit more memory in our instance.
And so yep we'll continue with this instance time skips a review create launch configuration and let's
go back.
And now we have a copy and that copy is using a different instance type.
And what we would do then is we would then attach that new launch configuration to the auto screening
group.
So that's how launch configurations work.
Let's have a look now at launch templates.
So here we are on the launch templates console and like I say this is quite a new feature and it may
not appear on the exam yet but it will do soon and it's definitely something which I WSF promoting.
So let's go clip create launch template and you can use versioning with launch templates.
So here we have the option to create a new template or a version.
So if we chose a version we would have to find an existing template as the basis for that new version.
In our case we would create a new template.
You then give it a name.
You can give it a source template.
If you don't want a version but you still want to use an existing template as a as a source file you
then specify EMI I.D. instance types.
KEEPER So you know a lot of this is the same as with launch configurations.
When we get down to advance details however we'll see there's a lot more here.
Now firstly we can change to spot instances if we like and then we also have a lot more configuration
options.
For instance T2 t free unlimited you can't specify that in a launch configuration but you can launch
template.
So there's lots of information here.
Termination protection can be enabled you can enter license configurations.
So there's quite a lot in there.
Now another way that you can actually create a launch template is from an instance.
So let's just go back and I'm going to launch an instance quickly and I'm just going to go straight
through this wizard fats I'll just go to review and launch launch because I don't need to change anything.
And what we can do now is on the actions menu choose create template from instance and we need to give
this a name so let's just call this launch template one you can give it an optional version description
and it's already got the information filled out that's come from this source instance.
So we've got the Amway I.D. the instance type the keeper network interfaces storage volumes and so on
and now we can go down to advance details and do something like enable T2 T3 and LTD We could enable
termination protection and we could enter user data and then we create template for instance.
So now if you go to launch templates we can see we have a configuration here.
Let's go down to auto scaling groups.
And when we go to create and also scale in group the Wizards being changed a little now.
So you can see we have a launch configuration here and then we have launch template new here and Amazon
tell you that launch templates give you the option of launching one type of instant or a combination
of instance types and purchase options launch templates include the latest ATC features and can be updated
and version so they're definitely pushing this as the way forward.
This is the recommended feature to use in the future so you can choose launch template.
Select your launch template go the next step and then just create your auto scaling group.
Now what you'll notice here is that we have a new option fleet composition and we could adhere to the
launch template or we can combine purchase options and instances.
And this way we can mix OnDemand instances with spot instances and multiple instance types.
So let's just call this ASG 1 and let's add in an instance type and let's just choose a T2 small and
we'll go down we'll add a couple of subnets in and then choose next and we'll just keep this group at
its initial size click through go to review and create auto scaling group.
So we have our auto scaling group created and if we go into actions.
Edit We can see some of the information here.
Now if you changed a launch configuration you go back to this old console whereas if you stick with
launch template it changes and you can see some options here.
For instance the combined purchase options and instances and then you also get some more information
about spot allocation so you can configure how your instances are allocated and you can also specify
a percentage of instances that are on demand versus spot.
So there's quite a bit more going on here.
And if you scroll down a bit further you can see some more familiar information which you'll see in
both launch templates and launch configurations and we're going to cover that in the next couple of
labs so I won't go into the details of this section here just yet but that was just to give you a quick
overview of the differences between launch configurations and launch templates so you know that launch
templates are coming they're going to be an exam at some point soon.
They're already out there and NWS so you can start using them straight away.
And there's definitely some great advantages to using launch templates over launch configurations.
So for now what we can do is just delete are also scaling group and for the sake of cleaning up we can
go back and delete our launch configurations and we can also go up and delete our launch template and
I definitely outside of the auto scaling group started up an instance so I'm just gonna go and terminate
both of these instances to clean things up and that's it for this lab in the next lab.
We're going to go into auto screening health checks.